>> Steve Kinney: Higher order components,
higher order components are components
that take a component as an argument and
return a wrapped component.
So they basically take
a presentational component, and
return one that is wrapped
in a container component.
So it's basically an evolution of
this other pattern that we just saw.
I like to think of it as a container
factory, right, and I tend to use it
when I find myself saying, hey, I'm gonna
need this state all over the place, right?
We have campaigns lists and
unsubscribed groups in the app,
which I need in multiple places.
I need for a dropdown for picking which
unsubscribed group you want a person to
unsubscribe from, so
on and so forth, right?
And so you can create these higher order
components, and whatever you need that
data, you can simply take
the presentational component, pass into
the higher order component, and get
back a wrapped container and presenter.
So it's basically a way of
automating what we just did by hand.
The other really cool thing is that you
can actually use multiple of these.
So if I have a component that needs
both the current user and their tweets,
I can pass the presentational component
into the current user component.
And then pass that one into
the tweets higher order component.
We can kinda build all the state
functionality that we need, and
keep the actual presentation
completely separate.
So this is what it might look like
with a calculator in this case.
So this time, I called it WithCount,
and that's a pattern that we use at and
I think it's pretty popular.
When we see it with react redux later,
you're gonna see it called something else.
But I like to name it based on what
is the state that I'm passing in.
So in this case, it's my basic counter, so
it's going to be all that count
state that I broke out before.
Okay, and so it is a function that takes
a wrapped component as an argument.
So that is the component that
we will eventually wrap,
it is the presentational component.
And it returns something that
we might not have seen before,
which is an anonymous class, right.
Normally if we said class and gave it
a name, we'd say extends component.
But this is basically,
take this component that we pass in,
and return this new component.
And you can see that it has all of
the stateful accoutrements that we
saw when we made the container pattern.
But it also then returns what is that
wrapped component returns whatever
components was passed in with
all the state that it needs.
So ideally, what we should be able to
do in this case is, we should be able
to take that pizza container, right, and
we'll get set up for this in a second.
We'll take that pizza container,
we'll make it take any kind of
calculator that it receives, and
return the wrapped component.
So let me get us set up for that, and
then I'll push up a live coding branch so
you can kinda have some
of the basis there.
But I'm still gonna have you do
most of the heavy lifting, and
then we'll kind of review it together.
>> Steve Kinney: So what I need to do is,
this is still called application,
which I don't love at this point.
So what we'll do real quick is,
we will change then name of this one to,
>> Steve Kinney: WithPizzaCalculations,
seems good.
And this is not a higher order component
yet, just cuz I've given it the name that
would have you believe it is a higher
order component, it's not yet.
Cuz we have not done the part that
we saw in the previous slide.
But we've given it that name, and then
what we'll do real quick is, just to keep
the ReactDOM working correctly,
>> Steve Kinney: Application
extends Component.
>> Steve Kinney: And we'll have it render.
>> Steve Kinney: Return that, cool,
this isn't any different than
the container pattern, right.
This is just getting our name
set up in the correct way.
What we really want is
be able to say const,
>> Steve Kinney: Right, so we take our
presentational component.
The pizza calculator, again,
has no idea of state,
it simply is the recipient of props.
And then WithPizzaCalculations,
there's a function that takes
this presentational component and
returns a new class, a new component that
is the state wrapper, the pizza container.
Right, with that new presentational
component inside of it, right, so
that is very hard to express in words.
Right, so what I really want you to do is,
I'll put back up the slide
with count components so
you can kind of see the syntax.
But you have, effectively, the moving
pieces, just instead of hard coding,
in this pizza calculator here,
you're gonna want to return
whatever component was passed in.
That is the kind of the major difference,
we're going from a hard coded container
wrapping a presentational component.
To a function that takes
a presentational component and
returns that wrapped in the container.